The Following Ipython NoteBook is created for Analyzing the Human Microbe Data set at :

•	Data Source: https://aws.amazon.com/datasets/human-microbiome-project/?tag=datasets%23keywords%23biology (Links to an external site.) 
•	Platform: BlueMix Spark Platform
•	Output :Snapshot:

IBM BlueMix is utilized for analysing the Human Microbe Activity and analysed reports snapshots are generated. The Analysis demonstrated the number of samples of each type analysed for fetching the results .The required file provided was in .fsa format (custom format for recording )
IPython Note book was used for running the spark Sql queries with python using standard functions of spark like map, reduce, filter and latest concepts in spark like dataFrames.


Apache Spark: 
•	Apache Spark is the next generation analytics cluster computing and data processing platform for analysing and processing large datasets in memory with 100x performance improvements over hadoop ,mapreduce based systems . 
•	Spark provides inbuilt yarn framework (native) and can be run along with Algorithms like Machine Learning (Mlib),Streaming Data(Spark Streaming),Sql Data(Spark Sql).
•	The data processed by Spark is stored in form of resilient and inmutable dataobjects called RDD’s.
•	Dataframes is the extensions to RDD and provides sufficient improvements and advance functionalities over RDD and are used in this project as an introduction to convert CSV to key value pair data. 
IBM BlueMix: 
•	IBM Bluemix is a Cloud based PAAS platform and provides spark as a PAAs Services with managed conditions. The Object storage service of IBM is used the project to store the data and inbuilt hadoop connector connects the spark to the object store. 
•	The S3 data source can also be connected to the spark context ,but didn’t connect the same directly as a attempt to explore the object store service of BlueMix. 
•	The Object Store is authenticated by the credentials generated by the Bluemix platform for spark to access the data. 
Ipython Notebook :
•	Ipython notebook provides and intuitive way to write python scripts and run spark code to and analyse the data in cell formats. 
•	The Ipython Notebook can be downloaded and run on other sources after exporting  as demonstrated in the said project. 
